GOOGLE_AGENTICS_DAY_1

 whitepaper introduces Al agents. It presents a taxonomy of agent capabilities, 
emphasizes the need for an Agent Ops discipline for reliability and governance, 
and discusses the importance of agent interoperability and security through
identity and constrained policies.

In today's codelabs, you'll be building your first 
AI agent and your first multi-agent system, using 
Agent Development Kit (ADK), powered by 
Gemini, and giving it the ability to use 
Google Search to answer questions with up-to-date information. 
In the second codelab, the focus will be on 
multi-agent systems, where you'll learn how to 
create teams of specialized agents and 
explore different architectural patterns.


Decade of Agents: Capstone
Decade of Agents.
CAPSTONE. KAGGLE learner content.
DAY 1
• define agent. Thought loop.
• "Introduction to Agents"
• MODEL = BRAIN
• TOOLS = HANDS
• ORCHESTRATION = MEMORY / PLANNING
• THINK, ACT, OBSERVE LOOP
• scan scene,
• LEVEL 0 - LEVEL 4 (self evolving tools)
• CO-SCIENTIST and ALPHAEVOLVE
• MULTI-AGENT SYSTEMS
• CONTEXT ENGINEERING.
• SOLVE COMPLEX WORKFLOWS.
• INTEROPERABILITY A2A, HITL, monetary systems.
Q&A SESSION:
• brick layers to directors/conductors - mental leap, paradigm shift:
conceptual shift: sequential tasks to solve for outcome not details.
instructions to start, let it be AUTONOMOUS.
It makes probabilistic decisions.
Coding Agents. Less about clean code, more about functionality.
Citizen Developers, non technical builders.
• self-improving agentic system workflow shifts.
2025 - year of production, encoding specifically.
Ethan Mollack "vibe coding" - Jira ticket, fork off into the cloud.
TENX coders to 100X and Citizen Devs into Builders.
guardrails - prevent breaking rules.
proving themselves - self-critical agents.
agents acting as a team.
• live mode = voice, computer use, on screens - multi modal.
Modalities, layers on top. start simple, and layer on tools.
computer use - grows scope. live mode - talk to GEM.
multi-modal interactions. Minimal interaction = best agent.
audio to audio. RAG fast way to get facts. Memory bank.
Sub Agent, store data in memory, prompt cache close to accelerator.
• key design principles for AI agent framework
ADK - interoperability. No silos. Open-source. InterOP and CONNECT.
A2A, MCP.
LangChain, LangGraph, python function. Enterprise API wrappers.
The whole spectrum is open - without security vulnerability.
Better Together. And EXTENSIBLE. - Bring other models.
• autonomous self reorganization
RESEARCH, design patterns, principles. state of art.
agent improves its own prompt. Agents evolve topology.
Orchestrating team - to get the best result.
"Multi-Agent-Design" - optimize the team of agents.
Team of Agents: something is missing. CRITIC_AGENT.
OPTIMIZE - measure quality, monitor drift,
• ensure secure - pitfalls
separation of concerns : A2A, MCP - move data to separate teams.
responding with agent - not raw access: GOVERNANCE, POLICY.
TELEMETRY - LOGGING. Cloud Monitoring - MONITORING.
ENFORCEMENT. Understand the caller - before response.
Nuance of implementation A2UI - evolved in parallel with implementation.
Defense in depth, and least access principle.
• emerging patterns: graph-based routing:
specialized personas, subsets of tools - 5/10.
routing to appropriate specialist. Tool retrieval.
DB of 1000 tools - get 4 tools. better planning
Better task decomposition. pick plan across tools important.
have to come up with new plans mid-stream.
decompose, orchestrate - dynamic JIT (maintenance).
Patterns, break down complexity into SETZ of STEPS.
Experiment with patterns - to get different context structure.
CODE_LABS overview:
HANDS on CODING Codelabs.
Agent Development Kit.
ADK framework.
sessions, states, artifacts.
long running tasks.
GitHub google/adk-python
&gt; ADK WEB
&gt; ADK LITE
Agent Authoring - universal standard.
framework for production AI. From prototype to global scale.
Prompt > llm > text
Prompt > agent > think > recieve > observe.
design multi agent system in adk
different ways to design
learn patterns, and when to use.
patterns:
sequential agent: pipeline, generate, write, edit
parallel agent: independent, fan out,
loop agent: iterate and refine, critic - until goal is met and stop.
llm orchestrator.
QA
3 essential components ai agent
Model, tools, Orchestration.
order of 5 step problem solving:
1 get the mission
2 scan the scene
3 think it through
4 take an action
5 observe results and iterate
taxonomy LEVEL 2 problem solving:
context engineering multi path solution
Orchestration layers
Conductor: think, act, observe, loop.
level 4 self evolving:
evolve ability to fill limitations.


